<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
  <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Ruth Hall</title>
    <link href="styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
  </head>
  <body><h1>Contents</h1>
    <div class="transition2"></div>
      <ol class="centered small-caps contents">
        <li><a href="004-chapter-1.xhtml">The eve before the bridal—Ruth’s little room—A retrospective reverie</a></li>
        <li><a href="005-chapter-2.xhtml">The wedding—A glimpse of the character of Ruth’s Brother Hyacinth</a></li>
        <li><a href="006-chapter-3.xhtml">The new home-Soliloquy of the mother-in-law</a></li>
        <li><a href="007-chapter-4.xhtml"> The first interview with the mother-in-law</a></li>
        <li><a href="008-chapter-5.xhtml">Ruth’s reflections on the interview</a></li>
        <li><a href="009-chapter-6.xhtml">A bit of family history</a></li>
        <li><a href="010-chapter-7.xhtml">The first-born</a></li>
        <li><a href="011-chapter-8.xhtml">The nurse</a></li>
        <li><a href="012-chapter-9.xhtml">Further developments of the mother-in-law’s character</a></li>
        <li><a href="013-chapter-10.xhtml">Ruth’s country home</a></li>
        <li><a href="014-chapter-11.xhtml">Ruth and Daisy</a></li>
        <li><a href="015-chapter-12.xhtml">The old folks follow the young couple—An entertaining dialogue</a></li>
        <li><a href="016-chapter-13.xhtml">The old lady’s surreptitious visit to Ruth’s, and her encounter with Dinah</a></li>
        <li><a href="017-chapter-14.xhtml">The old lady searches the house—What she finds</a></li>
        <li><a href="018-chapter-15.xhtml">The old doctor meddles with Harry’s farming arrangements</a></li>
        <li><a href="019-chapter-16.xhtml">Little Daisy’s reverie—Her strange playfellow</a></li>
        <li><a href="020-chapter-17.xhtml">“Pat” Mutinies</a></li>
        <li><a href="021-chapter-18.xhtml">A growl from the old lady</a></li>
        <li><a href="022-chapter-19.xhtml">Daisy’s glee at the first sleigh-ride</a></li>
        <li><a href="023-chapter-20.xhtml">Daisy’s illness—The old doctor refuses to come</a></li>
        <li><a href="024-chapter-21.xhtml">Dinah’s warning—Harry goes again for the doctor</a></li>
        <li><a href="025-chapter-22.xhtml">The old doctor arrives too late</a></li>
        <li><a href="026-chapter-23.xhtml">“The Glen” deserted—the old doctor’s and his wife’s version of the cause of Daisy’ death—Mrs. Jones gives her opinion</a></li>
        <li><a href="027-chapter-24.xhtml">Anniversary of Daisy’s death—Ruth’s reverie—Litte Katy’s request</a></li>
        <li><a href="028-chapter-25.xhtml">Hotel life—A new friend</a></li>
        <li><a href="029-chapter-26.xhtml">The fall of the leaf—Harry’s illness—The lonely watcher</a></li>
        <li><a href="030-chapter-27.xhtml">Arrival of the old doctor and his wife</a></li>
        <li><a href="031-chapter-28.xhtml">The old doctor’s announcement—Harry’s death</a></li>
        <li><a href="032-chapter-29.xhtml">Hyacinth’s sensibilities shocked</a></li>
        <li><a href="033-chapter-30.xhtml">Miss Skinlin</a></li>
        <li><a href="034-chapter-31.xhtml">Harry’s funeral</a></li>
        <li><a href="035-chapter-32.xhtml">A servant’s devotion</a></li>
        <li><a href="036-chapter-33.xhtml">Bickerings of the father and father-in-law—Dispute about the support of the children</a></li>
        <li><a href="037-chapter-34.xhtml">Ruth received a visit from her father—He insists her giving up her children to the old doctor—Ruth’s refusal</a></li>
        <li><a href="038-chapter-35.xhtml">The old lady, enraged, proposes a compromise—Mr. Ellet is forced to accede</a></li>
        <li><a href="039-chapter-36.xhtml">Ruth’s new lodgings—Speculations of the boarders</a></li>
        <li><a href="040-chapter-37.xhtml">Mr. Develin’s counting-house—The old doctor’s letter</a></li>
        <li><a href="041-chapter-38.xhtml">Little katy mourns for her papa</a></li>
        <li><a href="042-chapter-39.xhtml">Mr. Develin demands Harry’s clothes of Ruth—The wedding vest</a></li>
        <li><a href="043-chapter-40.xhtml">Ruth’s applications for needle-work</a></li>
        <li><a href="044-chapter-41.xhtml">Disgust of Ruth’s fashionable friends</a></li>
        <li><a href="045-chapter-42.xhtml">Conversation in Mrs. Millet’s kitchen</a></li>
        <li><a href="046-chapter-43.xhtml">The bouquet</a></li>
        <li><a href="047-chapter-44.xhtml">Mrs. Millet and the wooden man</a></li>
        <li><a href="048-chapter-45.xhtml">Little Katy visits her grandpa and meets with a characteristic reception—The strange gentleman”</a></li>
        <li><a href="049-chapter-46.xhtml">A peep from Ruth’s chamber window—Katy’s return.</a></li>
        <li><a href="050-chapter-47.xhtml">Boarding-house revolution—Mrs. Skiddy’s flight—Mr. Skiddy in the capacity of dry nurse</a></li>
        <li><a href="051-chapter-48.xhtml">A new idea—The Millets exhibit their friendship and delicacy</a></li>
        <li><a href="052-chapter-49.xhtml">Ruth resolves to become a teacher</a></li>
        <li><a href="053-chapter-50.xhtml">Ruth applies for a primary school</a></li>
        <li><a href="054-chapter-51.xhtml">The examination by the school committee</a></li>
        <li><a href="055-chapter-52.xhtml">Mrs. Skiddy’s unexpected return</a></li>
        <li><a href="056-chapter-53.xhtml">Skiddy’s intercepted hegira—His incarceration—His final escape</a></li>
        <li><a href="057-chapter-54.xhtml">The lunatic asylum</a></li>
        <li><a href="058-chapter-55.xhtml">Ruth’s new landlady</a></li>
        <li><a href="059-chapter-56.xhtml">The strange lodger—Ruth resolves to resort to her pen to obtain subsistence—She applies to her brother Hyacinth for advice and assistance—His characteristic reply</a></li>
        <li><a href="060-chapter-57.xhtml">The old lady resorts to stratagem, and carries her point</a></li>
        <li><a href="061-chapter-58.xhtml">Mr. Ellet exhibits his usual fatherly interest in Ruth’s affairs</a></li>
        <li><a href="062-chapter-59.xhtml">Ruth applies for employment at newspaper offices</a></li>
        <li><a href="063-chapter-60.xhtml">The bread of life</a></li>
        <li><a href="064-chapter-61.xhtml">A chapter which may be instructive</a></li>
        <li><a href="065-chapter-62.xhtml">Ruth obtains employment—Illness of Nettie—The strange lodger proves useful</a></li>
        <li><a href="066-chapter-63.xhtml">A peep into the old doctor’s cottage</a></li>
        <li><a href="067-chapter-64.xhtml">A glimpse of coming success</a></li>
        <li><a href="068-chapter-65.xhtml">Little Nettie’s sorrows—Cheering letters</a></li>
        <li><a href="069-chapter-66.xhtml">Katy’s first day at school—The town-pump controversy—Cruelty of Katy’s grandparents</a></li>
        <li><a href="070-chapter-67.xhtml">Mr. John Walter</a></li>
        <li><a href="071-chapter-68.xhtml">A letter from Mr. Walter, and it’s effect</a></li>
        <li><a href="072-chapter-69.xhtml">Ruth engages to write solely for the household messenger</a></li>
        <li><a href="073-chapter-70.xhtml">What Mr. Lescom said</a></li>
        <li><a href="074-chapter-71.xhtml">A sharp correspondence</a></li>
        <li><a href="075-chapter-72.xhtml">Offers of marriage and offers to publish</a></li>
        <li><a href="076-chapter-73.xhtml">What Mr. Tibbetts said about Ruth’s writing for The Household Messenger</a></li>
        <li><a href="077-chapter-74.xhtml">Soliloquy of a sub-editor</a></li>
        <li><a href="078-chapter-75.xhtml">Mr. Walter’s visit</a></li>
        <li><a href="079-chapter-76.xhtml">The Phrenological examination</a></li>
        <li><a href="080-chapter-77.xhtml">Publication day comes at last</a></li>
        <li><a href="081-chapter-78.xhtml">Hyacinth cornered</a></li>
        <li><a href="082-chapter-79.xhtml">Mr. Lewis enlightened</a></li>
        <li><a href="083-chapter-80.xhtml">More letters</a></li>
        <li><a href="084-chapter-81.xhtml">Freshet in the doctor’s cellar—“Ham’s” in danger of a total wreck—sudden appearance of Ruth—rescue of little Katy</a></li>
        <li><a href="085-chapter-82.xhtml">Arrival of Katy with her mother, Mr. Walter, and Mr. Grey, at new lodgings; Dinner and letters—conversations between the children</a></li> 
        <li><a href="086-chapter-83.xhtml">The little family alone at their new quarters—Nettie in the confession box—Katy’s mirth</a></li>
        <li><a href="087-chapter-84.xhtml">Katy and Nettie compare notes—Ruth dreams—Midnight conflagration—Rescue of the little family by Johnny Galt</a></li>
        <li><a href="088-chapter-85.xhtml">Tea-table talk between “the wooden man” and his spouse—Letter from “Our John”</a></li>
        <li><a href="089-chapter-86.xhtml">The old lady extinguished in a conversation with her neighbors, who announce the astonishing fact that ‘Floy’ is Ruth</a></li>
        <li><a href="090-chapter-87.xhtml">Conversation between Ruth’s father and Mr. Jones regarding Ruth’s literary debut</a></li>
        <li><a href="091-chapter-88.xhtml">Interview between the literary bookseller and Mr. Walter</a></li>
        <li><a href="092-chapter-89.xhtml">Arrival of Mr. Walter—Bank stock and bank certificate</a></li>
        <li><a href="093-chapter-90.xhtml">The last visit to Harry’s grave</a></li> 
      </ol>
  </body>
</html>