<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Ruth Hall</title>
  <link href="styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body>
    <div class="chapter">
		<h1>Chapter XV</h1>
		<p class="no-indent">“<span class="small-caps">Hallo!</span> what are you doing there?” exclaimed the doctor, looking over the fence at a laborer, at work in one of Harry’s fields.</p>
		<p>“Ploughing this bit o’ ground, sir. Mr. Hall told me to be sure and get it finished before he came home from the city this afthernoon.”</p>
		<p>“Nonsense!” replied the doctor, “I was born sometime before my son Harry; put up your plough, and lay that bit of stone wall yonder; that needs to be done first.”</p>
		<p>“I’m thinking Masther Hall won’t be afther liking it if I do, sir,” said Pat; “I had my orders for the day’s work before masther went to the city, sir, this morning.”</p>
		<p>“Pooh, pooh,” said the old man, unchaining the horse from the plough, and turning him loose in the pasture; “young folks <em>think</em> old folks are fools; old folks <em>know</em> young folks to be so.”</p>
		<p>Pat eyed the doctor, scratched his head, and began slowly to lay the stone wall.</p>
		<p>“What’s <em>that</em> fellow doing over yonder?” said the doctor to Pat.</p>
		<p>“Planting corn, yer honor.”</p>
		<p>“Corn? ha! ha! city farming! Good. Corn? That’s just the spot for potatoes. H-a-l-l-o there! Don’t plant any more corn in that spot, John; it never’ll come to anything—never.”</p>
		<p>“But, Mr. Hall?” said John, hesitatingly, leaning on his hoe-handle.</p>
		<p>“Harry? Oh, never mind him. He has seen more ledgers than corn. Corn? Ha! that’s good. You can go cart that load of gravel up the hill. What a fortunate thing for Harry, that I am here to oversee things. This amateur farming is pretty play enough; but the way it sinks the money is more curious than profitable. I wonder, now, if that tree is grafted right. I’ll take off the ligatures and see. That hedge won’t grow, I’m certain; the down-east cedars thrive the best for hedges. I may as well pull these up, and tell Harry to get some of the other kind;” and the doctor pulled them up by the roots, and threw them over the fence.</p>
	</div>
</body>
</html>