<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Ruth Hall</title>
  <link href="styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body>
    <div class="chapter">
<h1>Chapter XXX</h1>

<p class="no-indent"><span class="small-caps">“They</span> are very attentive to us here,” remarked the doctor, as one after another of Harry’s personal friends paid their respects, for his sake, to the old couple at No. 20. “Very attentive, and yet, Mis. Hall, I only practiced physic in this town six months, five years ago. It is really astonishing how long a good physician will be remembered,” and the doctor crossed his legs comfortably, and tapped on his snuff-box.</p>

<p>“Ruth’s brother, Hyacinth, leaves before the funeral, doctor,” said the old lady. “I suppose you see through <em>that</em>. He intends to be off and out of the way, before the time comes to decide where Ruth shall put her head, after Harry is buried; and there’s her father, just like him; he has been as uneasy as an eel in a frying-pan, ever since he came, and this morning <em>he</em> went off, without asking a question about Harry’s affairs. I suppose he thinks it is our business, and he owning bank stock. I tell you, doctor, that Ruth may go a-begging, for all the help she’ll get from <em>her</em> folks.”</p>

<p>“Or from me, either,” said the doctor, thrusting his thumbs into the arm-holes of his vest, and striding across the room. “She has been a spoiled baby long enough; she will find earning her living a different thing from sitting with her hands folded, with Harry chained to her feet.”</p>

<p>“What did you do with that bottle of old wine, Mis. Hall, which I told you to bring out of Harry’s room? He never drank but one glass of it, after that gentleman sent it to him, and we might as well have it as to let those lazy waiters drink it up. There were two or three bunches of grapes, too, he didn’t eat; you had better take them, too, while you are about it.”</p>

<p>“Well, it don’t seem, after all, as if Harry was dead,” said the doctor, musingly; “but the Lord’s will be done. Here comes your dress-maker, Mis. Hall.”</p>

<div class="large-break"></div>

<p>“Good afternoon, ma’am, good afternoon, sir,” said Miss Skinlin, with a doleful whine, drawing down the corners of her mouth and eyes to suit the occasion. “Sad affliction you’ve met with. As our minister says, ‘man is like the herb of the field; blooming to-day, withered to-morrow.’ Life is short: will you have your dress gathered or biased, ma’am?”</p>

<p>“Quite immaterial,” said the old lady, anxious to appear indifferent; “though you may as well, I suppose, do it the way which is worn the most.”</p>

<p>“Well, some likes it one way, and then again, some likes it another. The doctor’s wife in the big, white house yonder—do you know the doctor’s wife, ma’am?”</p>

<p>“No,” said the old lady.</p>

<p>“Nice folks, ma’am; open-handed; never mind my giving ’em back the change, when they pay me. <em>She</em> was a Skefflit. Do you know the Skefflits? Possible? why they are our first folks. Well, la, where was I? Oh! the doctor’s wife has her gowns biased; but then she’s getting fat, and wants to look slender. I’d advise you to have yourn gathered. Dreadful affliction you’ve met with, ma’am. Beautiful corpse your son is. I always look at corpses to remind me of my latter end. Some corpses keep much longer than others; don’t you think so, ma’am? They tell me your son’s wife is most crazy, because they doted on one another so.”</p>

<p>The doctor and his wife exchanged meaning looks.</p>

<p>“<em>Do tell?</em>” said Miss Skinlin, dropping her shears. “Well, I never! ‘How desaitful the heart is,’ as our minister says. Why, everybody about here took ’em for regular turtle-doves.”</p>

<p>“‘All is not gold that glitters,’” remarked the old lady. “There is many a heart-ache that nobody knows anything about, but He who made the heart. In my opinion our son was not anxious to continue in this world of trial longer.”</p>

<p>“You don’t?” said Miss Skinlin. “Pious?”</p>

<p>“<em>Certainly</em>,” said the doctor. “Was he not our son? Though, since his marriage, his wife’s influence was very worldly.”</p>

<p>“Pity,” whined Miss Skinlin; “professors should let their light shine. <em>I</em> always try to drop a word in season, wherever business calls <em>me</em>. Will you have a cross-way fold on your sleeve, ma’am? I don’t think it would be out of place, even on this mournful occasion. Mrs. Tufts wore one when her eldest child died, and she was dreadful grief-stricken. I remember she gave me (poor dear!) a five-dollar note, instead of a two; but that was a thing I hadn’t the heart to harass her about at such a time. I respected her grief too much, ma’am. Did I understand you that I was to put the cross-way folds on your sleeve, ma’am?”</p>

<p>“You may do as you like,” whined the old lady; “people <em>do</em> dress more at hotels.”</p>

<p>“Yes,” said Miss Skinlin; “and I often feel reproved for aiding and abetting such foolish vanities; and yet, if I refused, from conscientious scruples, to trim dresses, I suppose somebody else would; so you see, it wouldn’t do any good. Your daughter-in-law is left rich, I suppose. I always think that’s a great consolation to a bereaved widow.”</p>

<p>“You needn’t <em>suppose</em> any such thing,” said the doctor, facing Miss Skinlin; “she hasn’t the first red cent.”</p>

<p>“Dreadful!” shrieked Miss Skinlin. “What is she going to do?”</p>

<p>“That tells the whole story,” said the doctor; “sure enough, what is she going to do?”</p>

<p>“I suppose she’ll live with <em>you</em>,” said Miss Skinlin, suggestively.</p>

<p>“You needn’t suppose <em>that</em>, either,” retorted the doctor. “It isn’t every person, Miss Skinlin, who is agreeable enough to be taken into one’s house; besides, she has got folks of her own.”</p>

<p>“Oh,—ah!”—said Miss Skinlin; “rich?”</p>

<p>“Yes, very,” said the doctor; “unless some of their poor relatives turn up, in which case, they are always dreadfully out of pocket.”</p>

<p>“I un-der-stand,” said Miss Skinlin, with a significant nod. “Well; I don’t see anything left for her to do, but to earn her living, like some other folks.”</p>

<p>“P-r-e-c-i-s-e-l-y,” said the doctor.</p>

<p>“Oh—ah,”—said Miss Skinlin, who had at last possessed herself of “the whole story.”</p>

<p>“I forgot to ask you how wide a hem I should allow on your black crape veil,” said Miss Skinlin, tying on her bonnet to go. “Half a yard width is not considered too much for the <em>deepest</em> affliction. Your daughter, the widow, will probably have that width,” said the crafty dress-maker.</p>

<p>“In my opinion, Ruth is in no deeper affliction than we are,” said the doctor, growing very red in the face; “although she makes more fuss about it; so you may just make the hem of Mis. Hall’s veil half-yard deep too, and send the bill into No. 20, where it will be footed by Doctor Zekiel Hall, who is not in the habit of ordering what he can’t pay for. <em>That</em> tells the whole story.”</p>

<p>“Good morning,” said Miss Skinlin, with another doleful whine. “May the Lord be your support, and let the light of His countenance shine upon you, as our minister says.”</p>
</div>
</body>
</html>