<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Ruth Hall</title>
  <link href="styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body>
    <div class="chapter">
<h1>Chapter XLV</h1>

<p class="no-indent">“<span class="small-caps">Come</span> here, Katy,” said Ruth, “do you think you could <em>go alone</em> to your grandfather Ellet’s for once? My board bill is due to-day, and my head is so giddy with this pain, that I can hardly lift it from the pillow. Don’t you think you can go without me, dear? Mrs. Skiddy is very particular about being paid the moment she sends in her bill.”</p>

<p>“I’ll try, mamma,” replied little Katy, unwilling to disoblige her mother.</p>

<p>“Then bring your bonnet, dear, and let me tie it; be very, very careful crossing the streets, and don’t loiter on the way. I have been hoping every moment to be better, but I cannot go.”</p>

<p>“Never mind, mother,” said Katy, struggling bravely with her reluctance, as she kissed her mother’s cheek, and smiled a good-bye; but when she gained the crowded street, the smile faded away from the little face, her steps were slow, and her eyes downcast; for Katy, child as she was, knew that her grandfather was never glad to see them now, and his strange, cold tone when he spoke to her, always made her shiver; so little Katy threaded her way along, with a troubled, anxious, care-worn look, never glancing in at the shopkeepers’ tempting windows, and quite forgetting Johnny Galt’s pretty bunch of flowers, till she stood trembling with her hand on the latch of her grandfather’s counting-room door.</p>

<p>“That <em>you!</em>” said her grandfather gruffly, from under his bent brows; “come for money <em>again</em>? Do you think your grandfather is made of money? people have to earn it, did you know that? I worked hard to earn mine. Have you done any thing to earn this?”</p>

<p>“No, Sir,” said Katy, with a culprit look, twisting the corner of her apron, and struggling to keep from crying.</p>

<p>“Why don’t your mother go to work and earn something?” asked Mr. Ellet.</p>

<p>“She cannot get any work to do,” replied Katy; “she tries very hard, grandpa.”</p>

<p>“Well, tell her to <em>keep on</em> trying, and you must grow up quick, and earn something too; money don’t grow on trees, or bushes, did you know that? What’s the reason your mother didn’t come after it herself, hey?”</p>

<p>“She is sick,” said Katy.</p>

<p>“Seems to me she’s always sick. Well, there’s a dollar,” said her grandfather, looking at the bill affectionately, as he parted with it; “if you keep on coming here at this rate, you will get all my money away. Do you think it is right to come and get all my money away, hey? Remember now, you and your mother must earn some, <em>somehow</em>, d’ye hear?”</p>

<p>“Yes, Sir,” said Katy meekly, as she closed the door.</p>

<p>There was a great noise and bustle in the street, and Katy was jostled hither and thither by the hurrying foot passengers; but she did not heed it, she was so busy thinking of what her grandfather had said, and wondering if she could not sell matches, or shavings, or sweep the crossings, or earn some pennies somehow, that she need never go to her grandfather again. Just then a little girl her own age, came skipping and smiling along, holding her father’s hand. Katy looked at her and thought of her father, and then she began to cry.</p>

<p>“What is the matter, my dear?” said a gentleman, lifting a handful of Katy’s shining curls from her face; “why do you cry, my dear?”</p>

<p>“I want my papa,” sobbed Katy.</p>

<p>“Where is he, dear? tell me, and I will take you to him, shall I?”</p>

<p>“If you please, Sir,” said Katy, innocently, “he has gone to heaven.”</p>

<p>“God help you,” said the gentleman, with moistened eyes, “where had you been when I met you?”</p>

<p>“Please, Sir—I—I—I had rather not tell,” replied Katy, with a crimson blush.</p>

<p>“Very odd, this,” muttered the gentleman; “what is your name, dear?”</p>

<p>“Katy, Sir.”</p>

<p>“Katy what?” asked the gentleman. “Katy-did, I think! for your voice is as sweet as a bird’s.”</p>

<p>“Katy Hall, Sir.”</p>

<p>“Hall? Hall?” repeated the gentleman, thoughtfully; “was your father’s name Harry?”</p>

<p>“Yes,” said Katy.</p>

<p>“Was he tall and handsome, with black hair and whiskers?”</p>

<p>“Oh, <em>so</em> handsome,” replied Katy, with sparkling eyes.</p>

<p>“Did he live at a place called ‘The Glen,’ just out of the city?”</p>

<p>“Yes,” said Katy.</p>

<p>“My child, my poor child,” said the gentleman, taking her up in his arms and pushing back her hair from her face; “yes, here is papa’s brow, and his clear, blue eyes, Katy. I used to know your dear papa.”</p>

<p>“Yes?” said Katy, with a bright, glad smile.</p>

<p>“I used to go to his counting-house to talk to him on business, and I learned to love him very much, too. I never saw your mamma, though I often heard him speak of her. In a few hours, dear, I am going to sail off on the great ocean, else I would go home with you and see your mamma. Where do you live, Katy?”</p>

<p>“In —— court,” said the child. The gentleman colored and started, then putting his hand in his pocket and drawing out something that looked like paper, slipped it into little Katy’s bag, saying, with delicate tact, “Tell your mamma, my dear, that is something I owed your dear papa; mind you carry it home safely; now give me a good-bye kiss, and may God forever bless you, my darling.”</p>

<p>Little Katy stood shading her eyes with her hand till the gentleman was out of sight; it was so nice to see somebody who “loved papa;” and then she wondered why her grandfather never spoke so to her about him; and then she wished the kind gentleman were her grandpapa; and then she wondered what it was he had put in the bag for mamma; and then she recollected that her mamma told her “not to loiter;” and then she quickened her tardy little feet.</p>
</div>
</body>
</html>