<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Ruth Hall</title>
  <link href="styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body>
    <div class="chapter">
<h1>Chapter L</h1>

<p class="no-indent"><span class="small-caps">Mr. Millet</span> sat in his counting room, with his pen behind his ear, examining his ledger. “Do?” said he concisely, by way of salutation, as Ruth entered.</p>

<p>“I understand there is a vacancy in the 5th Ward Primary School,” said Ruth; “can you tell me, as you are one of the Committee for that district, if there is any prospect of my obtaining it, and how I shall manage to do so.”</p>

<p>“A-p-p-l-y,” said Mr. Millet.</p>

<p>“When is the examination of applicants to take place?” asked Ruth.</p>

<p>“T-u-e-s-d-a-y,” replied the statue.</p>

<p>“At what place?” asked Ruth.</p>

<p>“C-i-t-y—H-a-l-l,” responded the wooden man, making an entry in his ledger.</p>

<p>Ruth’s heroic resolutions to ask him to use his influence in her behalf, vanished into thin air, at this icy reserve; and, passing out into the street, she bent her slow steps in the direction of Mr. Develin’s. On entering the door, she espied that gentleman through the glass door of his counting-room, sitting in his leathern arm-chair, with his hands folded, in an attitude of repose and meditation.</p>

<p>“Can I speak to you a moment?” said Ruth, lifting the latch of the door.</p>

<p>“Well—yes—certainly, Mrs. Hall,” replied Mr. Develin, seizing a package of letters; “it is an uncommon busy time with me, but yes, certainly, if you have anything <em>particular</em> to say.”</p>

<p>Ruth mentioned in as few words as possible, the Primary School, and her hopes of obtaining it, Mr. Develin, meanwhile, opening the letters and perusing their contents. When she had finished, he said, taking his hat to go out:</p>

<p>“I don’t know but you’ll stand as good a chance, Mrs. Hall, as anybody else; you can apply. But you must excuse me, for I have an invoice of books to look over, immediately.”</p>

<p>Poor Ruth! And this was human nature, which, for so many sunny years of prosperity, had turned to her only its <em>bright</em> side! She was not to be discouraged, however, and sent in her application.</p>
</div>
</body>
</html>