<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Ruth Hall</title>
  <link href="styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body>
   <div class="cahpter">
	<h1>Chapter LXXV</h1>
	<p class="no-indent">“<span class="small-caps">Hark</span>! Nettie. Go to the door, dear,” said Ruth, “some one knocked.”</p>
	<p>“It is a strange gentleman, mamma,” whispered Nettie, “and he wants to see you.”</p>
	<p>Ruth bowed as the stranger entered. She could not recollect that she had ever seen him before, but he looked very knowing, and, what was very provoking, seemed to enjoy her embarrassment hugely. He regarded Nettie, too, with a very scrutinizing look, and seemed to devour everything with the first glance of his keen, searching eye. He even seemed to listen to the whir—whir—whir of the odd strange lodger in the garret overhead.</p>
	<p>“I don’t recollect you,” said Ruth, hesitating, and blushing slightly; “you have the advantage of me, sir?”</p>
	<p>“And yet you and I have been writing to each other, for a week or more,” replied the gentleman, with a good-humored smile; “you have even signed a contract, entitling me to your pen-and-ink services.”</p>
	<p>“Mr. Walter?” said Ruth, holding out her hand.</p>
	<p>“Yes,” replied Mr. Walter, “I had business this way, and I could not come here without finding you out.”</p>
	<p>“Oh, thank you,” said Ruth, “I was just wishing that I had some head wiser than mine, to help me decide on a business matter which came up two or three days ago. Somehow I don’t feel the least reluctance to bore you with it, or a doubt that your advice will not be just the thing; but I shall not stop to dissect the philosophy of that feeling, lest in grasping at the shadow, I should lose the substance,” said she, smiling.</p>
	<p>While Ruth was talking, Mr. Walter’s keen eye glanced about the room, noting its general comfortless appearance, and the little bowl of bread and milk that stood waiting for their supper. Ruth observed this, and blushed deeply. When she looked again at Mr. Walter, his eyes were glistening with tears.</p>
	<p>“Come here, my darling,” said he to Nettie, trying to hide his emotion.</p>
	<p>“I don’t know you,” answered Nettie.</p>
	<p>“But you will, my dear, because I am your mamma’s friend.”</p>
	<p>“Are you Katy’s friend?” asked Nettie.</p>
	<p>“Katy?” repeated Mr. Walter.</p>
	<p>“Yes, my <em>sister</em> Katy; she can’t live here, because we don’t have supper enough; pretty soon mamma will earn more supper, won’t you mamma? Shan’t you be glad when Katy comes home, and we all have enough to eat?” said the child to Mr. Walter.</p>
	<p>Mr. Walter pressed his lips to the child’s forehead with a low “Yes, my darling;” and then placed his watch chain and seals at her disposal, fearing Ruth might be painfully affected by her artless prattle.</p>
	<p>Ruth then produced the different publishers’ offers she had received for her book, and handed them to Mr. Walter.</p>
	<p>“Well,” said he, with a gratified smile, “I am not at all surprised; but what are you going to reply?”</p>
	<p>“Here is my answer,” said Ruth, “<em>i. e.</em> provided your judgment endorses it. I am a novice in such matters, you know, but I cannot help thinking, Mr. Walter, that my book will be a success. You will see that I have acted upon that impression, and refused to sell my copyright.”</p>
	<p>“You don’t approve it?” said she, looking a little confused, as Mr. Walter bent his keen eyes on her, without replying.</p>
	<p>“But I do though,” said he; “I was only thinking how excellent a substitute strong common-sense may be for experience. Your answer is brief, concise, sagacious, and business-like; I endorse it unhesitatingly. It is just what I should have advised you to write. You are correct in thinking that your book will be popular, and wise in keeping the copyright in your own hands. In how incredibly short a time you have gained a literary reputation, Floy.”</p>
	<p>“Yes,” answered Ruth, smiling, “it is all like a dream to me;” and then the smile faded away, and she shuddered involuntarily as the recollection of all her struggles and sufferings came vividly up to her remembrance.</p>
	<p>Swiftly the hours fled away as Mr. Walter, with a brother’s freedom, questioned Ruth as to her past life and drew from her the details of her eventful history.</p>
	<p>“Thank God, the morning dawneth,” said he in a subdued tone, as he pressed Ruth’s hand, and bade her a parting good-night.</p>
	<p>Ruth closed the door upon Mr. Walter’s retreating figure, and sat down to peruse the following letters, which had been sent her to Mr. Walter’s care, at the Household Messenger office.</p>
	<div class="block-quote letter">
		<p class="salutation small-caps">“Mrs. or Miss ‘Floy:’</p>
		<p>“Permit me to address you on a subject which lies near my heart, which is, in fact, a subject of pecuniary importance to the person now addressing you. My story is to me a painful one; it would doubtless interest you; were it written and published, it would be a thrilling tale.</p>
		<p>“Some months since I had a lover whom I adored, and who said he adored me. But as Shakspeare has said, ‘The course of true love never did run smooth;’ ours soon became an up-hill affair, my lover proved false, ceased his visits, and sat on the other side of the meeting-house. On my writing to him and desiring an explanation, he insultingly replied, that I was not what his fancy had painted me. Was that <em>my</em> fault? false, fickle, ungenerous man! But I was not thus to be deceived and shuffled off. No; I employed the best counsel in the State and commenced an action for damages, determined to get some balm for my wounded feelings; but owing to the premature death of my principal witness, I lost the case and the costs were heavy. The excitement and worry of the trial brought on a fever, and I found myself on my recovery, five hundred dollars in debt; I intend to pay every cent of this, but how am I to pay it? My salary for teaching school is small and it will take me many years. I want you, therefore, to assist me by writing out my story and giving me the book. I will furnish all the facts, and the story, written out by your magic pen, would be a certain success. A publisher in this city has agreed to publish it for me if you will write it. I could then triumph over the villain who so basely deceived me.</p>
		<p>“Please send me an early answer, as the publisher referred to is in a great hurry.</p>
		<p class="complimentary-close">“Very respectfully yours,</p>
		<p class="signature small-caps">“Sarah Jarmesin.”</p>
	</div>
	<p>“Well,” said Ruth, laughing, “my bump of invention will be entirely useless, if my kind friends keep on furnishing me with subjects at this rate. Here is letter No. 2.”</p>
	<div class="block-quote letter">
		<p class="salutation small-caps">“Dear ‘Floy’:</p>
		<p>“My dog Fido is dead. He was a splendid Newfoundland, black and shaggy; father gave $10 for him when he was a pup. We all loved him dearly. He was a prime dog, could swim like a fish. The other morning we found him lying motionless on the door-step. Somebody had poisoned poor Fido. I cried all that day, and didn’t play marbles for a whole week. He is buried in the garden, and I want you to write an epithalamium about him. My brother John, who is looking over my shoulder, is laughing like everything; he says ’t is an epitaph, not an epithalamium that I want, just as if <em>I</em> didn’t know what I want? John is just home from college, and thinks he knows everything. It is my dog, and I’ll fix his tombstone just as I like. Fellows in round jackets are not always fools. Send it along quick, please, ‘Floy’; the stone-cutter is at work now. What a funny way they cut marble, don’t they? (with sand and water.) Johnny Weld and I go there every recess, to see how they get on with the tombstone. Don’t stick in any Latin or Greek, now, in your epithalamium. Our John cannot call for a glass of water without lugging in one or the other of them; I’m sick as death of it. I wonder if I shall be such a fool when I go to college. You ought to be glad you are a woman, and don’t have to go. Don’t forget Fido, now. Remember, he was six years old, black, shaggy, with a white spot on his forehead, and rather a short-ish tail—a prime dog, I tell <em>you</em>.</p>
		<p class="signature small-caps">“Billy Sands.”</p>
	</div>
	<p>“It is a harrowing case, Billy,” said Ruth, “but I shall have to let Fido pass; now for letter No. 3.”</p>
	<div class="block-quote letter">
		<p class="salutation small-caps">“Dear Madam:</p>
		<p>“I address a stranger, and yet not a stranger, for I have read your heart in the pages of your books. In these I see sympathy for the poor, the sorrowing, and the dependent; I see a tender love for helpless childhood. Dear ‘Floy,’ I am an orphan, and that most wretched of all beings, a loving, but unloved wife. The hour so dreaded by all maternity draws near to me. It has been revealed to me in dreams that I shall not survive it. ‘Floy,’ will you be a mother to my babe? I cannot tell you why I put this trust in one whom I have only known through her writings, but something assures me it will be safe with you; that you only can fill my place in the little heart that this moment is pulsating beneath my own. Oh, do not refuse me. There are none in the wide world to dispute the claim I would thus transfer to you. Its father—but of him I will not speak; the wine-cup is my rival. Write me speedily. I shall die content if your arms receive my babe.</p>
		<p class="complimentary-close">“Yours affectionately,</p>
		<p class="signature small-caps">Mary Andrews.”</p>
	</div>
	<p>“Poor Mary! that letter must be answered,” said Ruth, with a sigh;—“ah, here is one more letter.”</p>
	<div class="block-quote letter">
		<p class="salutation small-caps">“Miss, or Mrs., or Madam Floy:</p>
		<p>“I suppose by this time you have become so inflated that the honest truth would be rather unpalatable to you; nevertheless, I am going to send you a few plain words. The rest of the world flatters you—I shall do no such thing. You have written tolerably, all things considered, but you violate all established rules of composition, and are as lawless and erratic as a comet. You may startle and dazzle, but you are fit only to throw people out of their orbits. Now and then, there’s a gleam of something like reason in your writings, but for the most part they are unmitigated trash—false in sentiment—unrhetorical in expression; in short, were you my daughter, which I thank a good Providence you are not, I should box your ears, and keep you on a bread and water diet till you improved. That you <em>can</em> do better, if you will, I am very sure, and that is why I take the pains to find fault, and tell you what none of your fawning friends will.</p>
		<p>“You are not a genius—no, madam, not by many removes; Shakspeare was a genius—Milton was a genius—the author of ‘History of the Dark Ages,’ which has reached its fifteenth edition, was a genius—(you may not know you have now the honor of being addressed by him;) no, madam, you are not a genius, nor have I yet seen a just criticism of your writings; they are all either over-praised, or over-abused; you have a certain sort of talent, and that talent, I grant you, is peculiar; but a genius—no, no, Mrs., or Miss, or Madam Floy—you don’t approach genius, though I am not without a hope that, if you are not spoiled by injudicious, sycophantic admirers, you may yet produce something creditable; although I candidly confess, that it is my opinion, that the female mind is incapable of producing anything which may be strictly termed literature.</p>
		<p class="complimentary-close">“Your honest friend,</p>
		<p class="signature small-caps">William Stearns.</p>
		<p class="signature">“Prof. of Greek, Hebrew, and Mathematics, in Hopetown College, and author of ‘History of the Dark Ages.’”</p>
	</div>
	<p>“Oh vanity! thy name is William Stearns,” said Ruth.</p>
</div>
</body>
</html>