<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Ruth Hall</title>
  <link href="styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body>
   <div class="chapter">
	<h1>Chapter LXXX</h1>
	<p class="no-indent"><span class="small-caps">Ruth</span> returned from her daily walk to the Post Office, one morning, with a bundle of letters, among which was one from Mr. Walter. Its contents were as follows:</p>
	<div class="block-quote letter">
		<p class="salutation small-caps">“Dear Sister Ruth:</p>
		<p>“I wonder if you are enjoying your triumph half as much as I? But how should you, since you do not know of it? Your publishers inform me that orders are pouring in for your book faster than they can supply them. What do you think of that? ‘Floy,’ you have made a decided hit; how lucky that you had the foresight to hold on to your copyright. $800 will not be a circumstance to the little fortune you are going to make. Your success is glorious; but I don’t believe you are half as proud of it as I am.</p>
		<p>“And now, I know of what you are thinking as well as if I were by your side. ’Tis of the little exile, ’tis of Katy. You would fly directly to bring her home. Can I be of any service to you in doing this? Business takes me your way day after to-morrow. Can you curb your impatience to see her till then? If so, I will accompany you. Please write me immediately.</p>
		<p class="complimentary-close">“Yours truly,</p>
		<p class="signature small-caps">John Walter.</p>
		<div class="postscript">
			<p>“P. S.—I send you a batch of letters, which came by this morning’s mail, directed to ‘Floy,’ office of the Household Messenger.”</p>
		</div>
	</div>
	<p>Ruth tossed the “batch of letters” down unopened, and sprang to her feet; she tossed up Nettie; she kissed the astonished child till she was half strangled; she laughed, she cried, and then she sat down with her forehead in both her hands, for a prolonged reverie.</p>
	<p>What <em>good</em> news about the book! How could she wait two days before she brought back Katy! And yet it would be a happy thing, that Mr. Walter, whose name was synonymous with good tidings, should be associated with her in the return of the child. Yes, she would wait. And when Katy <em>was</em> secured, what then? Why, she would leave forever a city fraught with such painful associations; she would make her a new home. Home? Her heart leaped!—comforts for Nettie and Katy,—clothes—food,—earned by her own hands!—Tears trickled through Ruth’s fingers, and her heart went out in a murmured prayer to the “God of the widow and fatherless.”</p>
	<p>“May I play house with these?” said Nettie, touching Ruth’s elbow, and pointing to the unopened letters.</p>
	<p>“No, little puss,” said Ruth, “not yet. Wait a bit till I have glanced at them;” and she broke the seal of one.</p>
	<p>It was an offer of marriage from a widower. He had read an article of hers on “Step-Mothers,” and was “very sure that a woman with <em>such</em> views could not fail to make a good mother for his children.” He was thirty-five—good-looking, (every man who had written her a love-letter <em>was</em>!) good disposition—warm-hearted—would love her just as well as if he had never bent an adoring knee to Mrs. Dorrance No. 1—was not at all set in his ways—in fact preferred she should, in everything, save him the trouble of <em>choice</em>; would live in any part of the Union she desired, provided she would only consent to <em>the union</em>. These last two words Mr. Dorrance had italicised, as indicating, probably, that he considered it a pun fit even for the critical eye of an authoress.</p>
	<p>“Oh, pshaw!” said Ruth, throwing the letter to Nettie, “make anything you like of it, pussy; it is of no value to me.” The next letter ran as follows:</p>
	<div class="block-quote letter">
		<p class="salutation small-caps">“Madam:</p>
		<p>“I have the honor to be guardian to a young Southern lady (an orphan) of large fortune, who has just completed her education. She has taken a suite of apartments, and given me orders to furnish them without regard to expense, according to her fancy. I have directions to procure busts of Mrs. Hemans, Miss Landon, and several other distinguished female writers, among whom Miss Le Roy includes ‘Floy,’ (I have not the pleasure, madam, of knowing your true name,) with whose writings she has become familiar, and who is as great a favorite with her as she is with the multitude who have paid tribute to her genius.</p>
		<p>“Please send me a line, (my address as below,) allowing me to inform my ward how her favorite wish can be best carried out.</p>
		<p class="complimentary-close">“Yours truly,</p>
		<p class="signature small-caps">Thomas Pearce.”</p>
	</div>
	<p>Ruth glanced around her little dark room and smiled. “I would rather, instead, that an artist would take a sketch of my room, now,” said she; “that little black stove, where I have so often tried in vain to thaw my frozen fingers—that rickety old bed—the old deal table, with its yellow bowl of milk—that home-made carpet—those time-worn chairs—and then you, my little bright fairy, in the foreground;” and she pushed back the soft, glossy curls from Nettie’s fair brow.</p>
	<p>“No, no,” said Ruth, “better reserve the niche destined for ‘Floy’ for some writer to whom ambition is not the hollow thing it is to me.</p>
	<p>“Well, what have we here? Another letter?” Ruth broke the seal of letter No. 3, and read:</p>
	<div class="block-quote letter">
		<p class="salutation small-caps">“Dear Madam:</p>
		<p>“I am a poor devil, and worse editor; nevertheless, I have started a paper. If you will but allow me to put your name on it as Assistant Editress, I am sure it will go like a locomotive. If, in addition to this little favor, you could also advance me the sum of one hundred dollars, it would be an immense relief to your admirer,</p>
		<p class="signature small-caps">“John K. Staples.</p>
		<div class="postscript">
			<p>“P. S.—Be sure you direct to John K. Staples, as there is another John Staples in this place, who is a great rascal.</p>
			<p class="signature">“J. K. S.”</p>
		</div>
	</div>
	<p>“Well!” exclaimed Ruth, “I did not believe I should ever be astonished again, but then—I had not heard from Mr. Staples. But here is another letter. Let us see what the contents of No. 4 are.”</p>
	<p>Letter No. 4 ran as follows:</p>
	<div class="block-quote letter">
		<p class="slautatio small-caps">“Dear ‘Floy’:</p>
		<p>“I am a better son, a better brother, a better husband, and a better father, than I was before I commenced reading your articles. May God bless you for the words you have spoken (though unintentionally) so directly to me. May you be rewarded by Him to whom the secrets of all hearts are known.</p>
		<p class="complimentary-close">“Your grateful friend,</p>
		<p class="signature">M. J. D.”</p>
	</div>
	<p>“This will repay many a weary hour,” said Ruth, as her tears fell upon the page.</p>
</div>
</body>
</html>